Draft intro about accessibility, user agents, and the curb cut effect (#591)
browserengineering/book: book/accessibility.md

developing web applications. But ultimately, the browser is a [_user_
agent][ua]. That means it should assist the user in whatever way it
can to access and use web applications. Browsers therefore offer a
range of [*accessibility*][a11y] features that take advantage of
[declarative] UI and the flexibility of HTML and CSS to make it
possible to interact with the web page by touch, keyboard, or voice.

[ua]: intro.md#the-role-of-the-browser

[declare]: intro.md#browser-code-concepts

[a11y]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility

What is accessibility?
======================

Accessibility means that the user can change or customize how they
interact with a web page in order to make it easier to
use.[^other-defs][^not-just-screen-reader] The web's uniquely-flexible
core technologies mean that browsers offer a lot of accessibility
features[^not-just-screen-reader] to allow a user to customize the
style, layout, and rendering of a web page, as well as interact with a
web page with their keyboard, by voice, or using some kind of helper
software.

[^other-defs]: Accessibility can also be defined from the developer's

>     point of view, [in which case][mdn-def] it's something like the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    point of view, [in which case][mdn-def] it's something like: the
```

    
[screen-reader]: https://www.afb.org/blindness-and-low-vision/using-technology/assistive-technology-products/screen-readers
    
[^for-now]: For now, that is---perhaps software assistants will become
more widespread as software improves, mediating between the user and
web pages. Password managers and form autofill agents are already
somewhat like this.

Of course, accessibility *does* include advanced accessibility tools
like screen readers, because these tools bring enormous benefits to
those that need them.[^moral] But the common lesson of all kinds of
accessibility work, physical and digital, is that once an
accessibility tool is built, creative people find that it helps in all
kinds of situations unforseen by the tool's designers. Dark mode helps
you tell your work and personal email apart; web page zoom helps you
print the whole web page on a single sheet of paper; and keyboard
shortcuts let you leverage muscle memory to submit many similar orders
to a web application that doesn't have a batch mode.

[^moral]: We have an ethical responsibility to help all users. Plus,
    there is the practical matter that if you're making a web page,

>     it's because you want as many people as possible to benefit from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    you want as many people as possible to benefit from
```

next: embeds
...

So far, we've focused on making the browser an effective platform for
developing web applications. But ultimately, the browser is a [_user_
agent][ua]. That means it should assist the user in whatever way it
can to access and use web applications. Browsers therefore offer a
range of [*accessibility*][a11y] features that take advantage of
[declarative] UI and the flexibility of HTML and CSS to make it
possible to interact with the web page by touch, keyboard, or voice.

[ua]: intro.md#the-role-of-the-browser

[declare]: intro.md#browser-code-concepts

[a11y]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility

What is accessibility
=====================

"Accessibility" refers to any way a user can change or customize how

> they interact with a web page,[^not-just-screen-reader] and the web's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they interact with a web page in order to make it to use,[^not-just-screen-reader] and the web's
```

Reviewer: Add another footnote acknowledging other definitions, such as "the practice of making your websites usable by as many people as possible" [1] (which is a framing of the same thing from a web developer point of view

[1] https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility

uniquely-flexible core technologies mean that browsers offer a lot of
accessibility features that allow a user to customize the style,
layout, and rendering of a web page, as well as interact with a web
page with their keyboard, by voice, or using some kind of helper
software.

The reasons for customizing, of course, are as diverse as the
customizations themselves. For example, when my son was born,[^pavel]
my wife and I alternated time taking care of the baby and I ended up
spending a lot of time working at night. To maximize precious sleep,
I wanted the screen to be less bright, and was thankful that many

> websites offer a "dark mode". Later, I found that taking notes by

Reviewer: I think it's better to omit the (not intended as, I know) scare quotes here, like you omitted for screen readers below.

next: embeds
...

So far, we've focused on making the browser an effective platform for
developing web applications. But ultimately, the browser is a [_user_
agent][ua]. That means it should assist the user in whatever way it
can to access and use web applications. Browsers therefore offer a
range of [*accessibility*][a11y] features that take advantage of
[declarative] UI and the flexibility of HTML and CSS to make it
possible to interact with the web page by touch, keyboard, or voice.

[ua]: intro.md#the-role-of-the-browser

[declare]: intro.md#browser-code-concepts

[a11y]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility/What_is_accessibility

> What is accessibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is accessibility?
```

[^pavel]: This is Pavel speaking.

The underlying reasons for using these accessibility tools were
temporary; but other uses may last longer, or be permanent. I'm
ever-grateful, for example, for [curb cuts][curb-cut], which make it
much more convenient to go on walks with a stroller, something I'll be
doing for years to come.[^toddler-curb-cut] And there's a good chance
that, like my ancestors, my eyesight will worsen as I age and I'll
need to set my computer to use a much larger text size. More advanced
accessibility tools, like screen readers, take time to learn and use
effectively, so are mostly used by people with long-term or permanent
disabilities.[^for-now]

[curb-cut]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curb_cut

[^toddler-curb-cut]: And when my son grows a bit and starts walking on
    his own, he'll likely still be small enough that walking up a curb
    without a curb cut will be difficult for him.
    
[^for-now]: For now, that is---perhaps software assistants will become
more widespread as software improves, mediating between the user and
web pages. Password managers and form autofill agents are already
somewhat like this.

> Of course, accessibility *does* include advanced accessibility tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, accessibility *does* include advanced tools
```

> like screen readers, because these tools bring enormous benefits to

Reviewer: Link to a definition of screen reader here?

those that need them.[^moral] But the common lesson of all kinds of
accessibility work, physical and digital, is that once an
accessibility tool is built, creative people find that it helps in all
kinds of situations unforseen by the tool's designers. Dark mode helps
you tell your work and personal email apart; web page zoom helps you
print the whole web page on a single sheet of paper; and keyboard
shortcuts let you leverage muscle memory to submit many similar orders
to a web application that doesn't have a batch mode.

> [^moral]: And we have a moral responsibility to help, plus the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^moral]: And we have an ethical responsibility to help all users.
```

>     commercial incentive of serving as large a market or reaching as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     large an audience as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: (I don't like mixing ethics with capitalism in the same sentence.)

Author: How about making it less "capitalistic" but keeping the core point, something like this:

> We have an ethical responsibility to help all users. Plus, there is the practical matter that if you're making a web page, it's presumably because you want as many people as possible using it.

Reviewer: How about rephrasing the second clause to "you want as many people as possible to benefit from it."

Reviewer: (without "presumably")

Author: Great!

Moreover, accessibility derives from the same [principles](intro.md)
that birthed the web: user control, multi-modal content, and
interoperability. These principles allowed the web to be accessible to

> different browsers and different operating systems, and these same

Reviewer: This sentence says "different" four times - can you rephrase?

Author: Hmm, I was hoping to emphasize a parallelism between what you might call "machine accessibility" and "human accessibility". Does that not come across?

Reviewer: How about:

"These principles allowed the web to be accessible to
different browsers and operating systems---and *these same principles* likewise make the web accessible to people of all types and abilities.

Author: Done
